Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome. Again, thank you everyone for coming,
and for participating, and again we continue to follow these retreat practices. We're doing this
for a while, and so thank you very much for all these opportunities and all this retargeting
and discussing the teachings of the Buddha Dharma, and the allegory of Master's according to my
capabilities, so we discuss it as much as we can explore. Thank you. Thank you very much again.
Again, as we continue in the teachings of the Jyapthi Dhruyubuji, and as
we are dividing into three groups, and which is the first novel, second novel, and third novels.
Among the three novels, the first novel is the intention and the beautiful motivation,
that is the first novel, and the second novel is then the non-grasping, non-clinging,
oh no, not mundane attitude, where we're practicing, the personal part of the practices,
and the concluding part is the dedication and aspirations. Those are the kind of layout,
and perfect frame, and follow the footsteps of the lineage masters. So today, now again,
we're going to talk about the middle part of that principle of our practices. But don't you do that
?
Again, the same thing, we're going to re-stand here. I will be doing motivation, or correct
motivation. Motivation of the joy and appreciation, and vastness, motivation of the bodhijata,
and this I'm going to reflect the teaching, and I'm going to observe the teaching,
truly made the benefit for all living beings. Remove their suffering, their difficulties,
whatever they're going through, or remove their suffering through, and also the same term,
cause of suffering through, we dispel everything, really truly, sincerely, we think from the heart,
heart, and then we reflect our godly teachings. Now, in that teaching, as we talk, we put,
as we bodhijata, bodhijata is like true bodhijata. We think bodhijata, and actualizing bodhijata,
and wishing bodhijata is the foundation, that is foundation, that is nature. Nature of the
bodhijata is love and kindness, compassion, and wisdom, that is. Now, when you have that attitude,
or that understanding, kind of siddly in our heart and mind, and then we also explain that,
we do four different ways, as in the teaching mentioned. Four, boneless. There is no borders,
love and compassion, to all the living beings, free from the border. Those we discuss, and those
are the four, boneless. Once we have the really good four, boneless, that, or maybe same time too,
then doni practices. Those equalizing, as well as doning, dahi jiva, in a debate, dahi jiva,
enabdawi, yinji, those are. Others are more dear than one's own self. So, those really kind of
mentally practicing, mentally meditating, that with instructions, as much as you get. That,
again, of course, is compassion. Love and kindness. Love and kindness is compassion,
and that is really practiced with exercise, or practice of the dungli, practice of those three
words. So, those are what the teaching said, as wishing bodhijathas. Once we do have the wishing
bodhijathas, now we have the actualizing bodhijathas. And of course, when generally bodhijathas, to
have
bodhijathas, you should check the vows of bodhijathas. It is very important. It is a
lineage of blessings, that reactivating our lineage of the line of the blessings, line
of the loving kindness and compassion. That continually. And this is, of course,
started from the Buddha chapter, Muni. And then, as well as it came from India,
to Tibet, it really came, but reality is traced back to the Buddha, the great city of Buddha
Shakyamuni. So, we are connected to that gene, that line, which is the lineage. This lineage is
loving kindness lineage, compassion lineage, wisdom lineage. And therefore, it is so powerful,
so special, so beautiful. And so, tentara bodhijathava. Or you check the bodhijathava,
of course, rafudu vowels in bodhijathas first, and then bodhijathava. That, when we see today,
and then we see bodhijatha practices, and now actualizing bodhijathas. Actualizing bodhijathas
is the principle part of the practices. That, now, we are going to practice until we reach the
enlightenment. Until we become the Buddha, we're going to practice this, this. And that is now
principle part of practice. Principle part of practice is also not something that, oh, principle
part of practice, then that's it. It's not. This three, what we put, this three from beginner noble
,
middle noble, and the conqueror noble, all is connected. All is connected. It contains all of
those anyway, too. It's not something completely kind of different from right and left, and all
that things. All connected. Even when we are doing the principle part of the practices, we should
activate the occasion with a good motivation. Joy and appreciation. Oh, even for a few seconds,
or maybe one minute, bring more joy and appreciation. Appreciation, make great thoughts.
And then also love and compassion for all the living beings, and then continue practices.
The principle part of the practice, whatever your practice is. So that is six paramata practices.
Six paramata practices, again, is not just six paramata, are six different groups in a different
kind of, on a department. Even one paramata contains all the six parametas. And therefore,
in the teaching said, all six paramata can be divided into 36 paramata practices because each
contains six of those. Six of the generosity, six of the morality, six of the bacon, six of
the joyful effort, six of concentration, six of the Pandya paramata, all the wisdoms. All that
contains. But it's so powerful, it's so strong, it's a deepening of our practices when we move,
when we advance in this. This is so powerful, attached to the goal of our own true nature,
and expressing of the beauty, beauty and its power, power of the body, there are 36 tools,
six paramatas that lead us to the other show, or get great enlightenment, not just only us,
but it will help to bring others to get enlightenment. That's what the religious teaching
of the, of the bodhisattva yanas. So now, when we talk this again, go a little bit details of this
six paramatas. Six paramatas are, the first is, of course, you all know, and we all heard of this,
first is the generous paramatas, and the second is morality paramatas, and the third is patient
paramatas, and the fourth is joyful effort paramatas, and the fifth is concentration paramatas,
and the sixth is parindya paramatas, so those are the six paramatas. If we translate that into
English, then of course, I mean, you all know that, but generosity, transcendental practices,
morality, transcendental practices. So, paramata or Sanskrit goal in English, I think so,
translated as transcendental, transcendental, and of course, you can take that, you can take up
is how that translated is now. Paramatas is very popular, six paramata is very popular,
famous teaching of the Mahayana Buddhism, and it's everywhere, I think it's like, in the book,
in the cyber highways, and everywhere, you can take that. It's paramata, as what I'm saying,
is correct or not, transcendental practices. So, now the fourth is the generosity practice.
Now, each of those, I've got a little bit of details on these
subjects, and fourth is generosity, and it's lastly, it's called dana, dana,
and what is nature of the generosity? Nature of generosity is giving,
giving, that's it, giving or giving way, that is it, dana. How are we giving this time?
Our giving is now best upon compassion, in other words, it's best upon both each other,
it's best upon both each other. So, therefore, when we give, we're going to give without any
expectations, expectations on this life or next life. All kind of good karmas, such as in Buddhism,
always talks, good karmas, we're going to give without any expectation of the karmas or the
result in this lifetime and the next lifetime. And what that actually means, in the teaching I said
,
you give that attitude, it didn't mean you won't get any result. It is going to increase our
married duties. It will glorify our observations, truly, but we started clinging on that. Then we
deluded. We deluded in this power, every suppose a thousand times power, we started clinging,
it shrank to maybe only 20 or 30 times, 30, compared with a thousand times and 20 times.
Then it's a big difference. So, therefore, we should not be deluded by the ego clings,
and grasping and a ratchet, clinging on that. Therefore, it is known as, pretty from the
expectations, it's this time or next lifetime. And so, that is what is the nature of the generosity
.
The nature of the generosity is again giving, giving with compassion, giving with body jettiness.
Now, in the teaching said, the great master of material, or asunder, the teaching said,
each of those parameters, when we do, it has four benefits, four benefits. The first,
when we do the generosity practices, it will dispel the hindrance of generosity.
It will despair or remove what is hindrance or opposite of the generosity,
opposite of the giving, on the other one. One is opposite of the giving, stingy, omisering.
So, the moment you open and give, give, if you truly give as without any expectations,
then it is horrifying, the strangeness. Strangeness is, what in the teaching said,
strange is, of course, is a negative emotion. Even you have our grasping, clinging and to hold.
Hold,
have you told too much? What in the teaching said, too much misering will lead our world in the
lower
realm, such as hunger, gall steps in the teaching said. It will really lead. Even if you rebound
back to the human whole, we will be very poor. The stranger has no good qualities, no benefits.
So, therefore, it will immediately avert or it will put a fire or remove the problems of the
strangeness. So, that is the first quality of the generosity of these Dhanapara mothers.
They put a fire in the strangeness. And when you put a fire in the strangeness, what comes?
In the teaching, actually, it will bring more content to them, more joy, more rich feeling.
It's not going to change the luxuries of that. When you give, it comes naturally. It doesn't look
cause or affect us. It brings more mentality of the prosperity,
contentment and abundance that attitude will come. So, therefore, generosity is very important.
When you give the generous of that called Bodhicitta or Mahayana, the second quality,
benefit of the Bodhicitta, sorry, Dhanaparamata, is it will bring realization of the non-conception
.
Most of us. It will bring the realization of non-conceptions. What in the teaching said,
when you give the gift of the without any expectation, expectations and one kind of
expectation, expecting of the subject, expecting on the object, expecting on the action or grasping
on the subject, grasping on the object, grasping on the subject and action. Or grasping on the
giver, grasping on the word that you're giving the gift and grasping to the others. Others.
If you have the grasping, clinging, then that is grasping. But without that, if you give the gift,
that gift is known as the real gift, free from the, in the teaching said, Khorsom,
Moomi, in the Tibetan word, which means free from the three spheres, or within the three spheres,
you keep everything is open. Everything is pure. It's completely 100% pure. It's more than
unconditional gift. Gift is just so pure. So therefore, it was an active area of the realization
of the understanding of the great emptiness, realization of the great influence. So that is
the principle part of the benefits. Our all gift, all paramata should be these states,
these states, free from the three spheres, free from the subject, free from the object,
free from the act, that action or the what we're doing, then really become the perfect paramata
in each of the trees. So that's what I will now be talking, the dana paramata, a generous paramata.
So that is the second. Third paramata, third benefit of this paramata in the teaching is the
benefit of this generosity. It will fulfill the wishes. When you give the gift, it will
fulfill the wishes, wishes of others and wishes of one's own self. It will fulfill the wish.
If you fulfill the gift, you also as bodhisattva, you fulfill the wish because you are fulfilling
the bodhijata activities. You're accumulating the readiness. We're purifying the observations.
We did one tool to benefit from other beings. How wonderful. We believe it, we promise to benefit
and help to all the sentient beings. Now, actually performing. Performing. So, it is
fulfilling one's own wish. Also, it is a fulfilling wish for others. What they desire, what they're
thinking, what do they want. You give some of those, some of the satisfaction in joys.
Therefore, fulfilling the wish for others. That is the third benefit of the
generosity. And the fourth one in the teaching says, the fourth benefit of generosity
is then it will, when you give the generosity with those with attitude, with manner, and exactly
that
what we're discussing, explain in that way, it will lead those individually according to their
capabilities. Or they are connected, connected to the stage of the practices. It will lead.
And that means what? Again, it means it will lead according there, a karmic connection,
if I use a simple word, karmic connection of whatever they are. For example, according Buddhism,
there are three yanas, the Sharaka yana, Pathik Bodhayana, and Bodhisattva yana. So, it will
connect to them, to those whichever they are interested. That with your gift, your gift manner,
beautiful kind of manner, you give the gift, gift and share those. And it will connect,
it will inspire them to connect to the according designated yanas, Sharaka yana, Pathik Bodhayana,
and Bodhisattva yanas. Those are the whole benefits of the generosity. And each of those six
parabhadas are almost the same, slightly different. But otherwise, everyone is the same way. It
brings
a good result. So that means when you give the gifts, it brings a good result, like happy to them,
and also like happy yourself. It will provide our strange attitude of grasping, clinging,
at least losing our strangeness, and it's opening at the same time. Then every gift,
those gifts without any grasping, then it really becomes more powerful. And also it will connect
to those are today according designated yanas, yanas. So therefore, it is very powerful tool
of the Bodhisattva, actualizing Bodhisattva. That's how we begin Bodhisattva practices.
Now, as you all know, I'm sure you all don't have heard that, now this generosity can be
divided into three, three generositys. And each of those has that benefit, what I'm saying then,
that poor benefit or poor debt. Each of those has, those four, three generositys are known as then,
and those are material generositys, and teaching generositys, and protection generositys,
protection generositys. So those are three generositys. And each of those, as I said,
you all have that poor benefit. Poor benefit, as I mentioned just right now, it all has that.
First is material generosity. Material generosity, yes, also divided into three.
Material generosity, and very big material generosity, very big material generosity. Those are the
three
material generositys. Why is it divided that three way? Because again, when we give the generositys
,
when we do that generosity, what we call this material generosity, you follow according your
capabilities. Your capabilities of your wealth, or capabilities of your willingness.
We're not going against that, but we're going to expand our courage and commitment.
Courage and commitment is not permanent. We can increase, we can develop, we can worsen that,
worsen that. But if our courage and commitment, willingness, even you have the material,
inability to say you should not do all. Follow your heart, what in a simple word, follow your
heart what you can do. But do that with joy, do that with appreciation, do that with politeness,
do that without, do that without any expectations. It's open gift, open hearted,
hearted. So even what Shanti there was teaching, and guide to the way in the lives of Modi Satva,
what the teaching said. Those very tight, steady persons can give from one hand to the other and
close the eye and thinking I'm giving this to the other person and going vulnerable. So train
ourself, gradually. And what Yogi, even the teaching said, the water tables, waters, walls kind of
exchanging back and forth from between two hands and arms. Those, even those are teaching taught.
So let me explain the gradually, not forceful. But whatever that, do with joy, do with open heart,
do with loving kindness and compassion of both each other, both each other. Learn. Then each
time when you're able to do that, you should reduce yourself, not the arrogance. Feel happy
I did something good. May I be able to do more even in the future. May the benefit of all living
beings always have the inspirations, aspirations, which will open the heart, open the capabilities,
open big result according to the teaching. Be practical. Be practical. So the material
generousness or the generally material generousness. And the big material generousness, then you
can read
in the Buddha's teachings. Or maybe also in a minute those beings really can give. So many things,
big buttons, teachings, they give to the material they're giving. Very much they're giving to all
their, even their buildings, house, and appropriate and all those things. They're giving for the
good
cause and good reasons to help us with all the beings or remove their suffering and difficulty
while it is all that. Those are known as big gifts. Then I think big gifts in the Buddha teaching
mentioned, because I think you mentioned in many times the Buddha even his own life to to protect
others, such as like tigerism. I should show you all. This is the one where we know the
life stories. Once upon a time Buddha was born as like prince, prince, and three brothers, and
three
brothers, and the same parent. They're all the brothers, they're all good friends, and they
explore the jungles. They went on the roofs, explorers, kind of went from the poorest to poorest.
They just explored that. They're all kind of looking at them. On the road they saw one of those
areas,
so mother, tigers, mother gave birth of the six cows, cows, and she's so hungry. There is no food,
she didn't get food, anything, and she's almost dying, and other cows are also almost dying.
And so, I mean, long story to make sure, and finally, so then they went again,
went and different explored them, all three brothers went, and suddenly the third brother,
youngest brother, said, "I'm sorry, I just have to go back a short time. I will join you." He just
go away here, something. He said he returned back, same spot, spot where the tigers and
cops are there, and then he he did the spiritual prayers made through this, my journalistic
generosity, as we are, I think sometimes we jive, made at this, made by this generosity, said,
"Liberate all the ways which is not liberated by the Asian Buddha, but this generosity made
liberated." I think that's the role he said, and he laid down right in front of the tigers,
tigers, and she's so weak, she couldn't do anything. Even he's pulling right in front of
them, and then he told what to do, and he got up and got the bumble stick, bumble stick, he pushed
his, his nerve, his nerve, nerve, and blood came and laid on. Then she started eating,
drinking blood, licking blood, and gradually, and then he, I mean this is very dramatic kind of
like
story, story, many times even we don't want to hear these kind of things by kind of our
timid attitude and ego clings, but that is truly the Buddha gave his own lives. This is not just
one kind, there are so many stories in the attack tells, Buddha gave his own life to save the other
beings, other beings, and that is again another story, and this is what in the teaching said,
this is the dungli, the ultimate dungli, you're giving your own body to bring the peace and
happiness to the others, the exchanging dungli. Another one, I think I said, and I'm sure you know,
know that, and Buddha was born once this time, once upon a time, Buddha was born as
turtle, sea turtle, big sea turtle, and then again that many people in the ocean, they all
kind of cross you by the iPhone or the Cyclone, Cyclone or tornadoes, whatever, and completely
whole hurricane destroyed, and so that moment this turtle, sea turtle, gigantic sea turtle,
come up and he indicated, come to me, come to me, and then they made, they started holding to him,
holding to him, so all those peoples are, who's in the ocean, that group, and hold
held the sea turtle, sea turtle, and sea turtle, like courageously with his full stand, stand,
pulled them to the other shores, other shores, and when they raked at their death, and the sea
turtle
feels so happy, I fulfilled my goal, he really feels so happy, but he's so exhausted, so so tired,
he falls asleep right at the shore, shore, before going to the ocean, and they were early sleeping,
they spoke, so much pain came, so much kind of a burning pain is coming, what is that, he woke up,
immediately woke up, and he looked, in the teaching city, he told them, the ancestors are biting
him,
biting him, he told immediately, he's going to jump to the, to the ocean,
but then he told, oh, I saved those peoples, few peoples to compare with this, this number,
I saved a man, and now I kill all of this, that is not the smart one, smart way, so I'm going to
give this body to them, give them, and then he just let them use the whole his bodies, sea turtle,
time, this is one of the again, shorter or the pomo lives of the buddha chakra members,
this is ultimate only practices, in the buddha teaching, generally they say, the only practice,
the ultimate only practice that you can do, only maybe when you reach the possible boom,
second boom, until that, we can do mentally, mentally those only practices, according to our
cover minutes, so that is just a generally content, but now again, we go back to this
generous practice, a generous force is a materials, I divide it, there's three
material generalists, and that is kind of roughly now, you understood, and all those things,
and there's of course, you all know that, and I'm reminding in a way, reminding each other of what
teaching says, what we learned from other great masters, or in the books too, so I'm talking that
we're activating that, the first is material generalists, second is
and the teaching generalists, the holy teachings, generalists, that holy teaching,
generalists, or the buddha dharma, so dharma teachings, whatever you can share those people in,
those people who are interested on that, and according their readiness, whatever you can share,
and whatever your cover minutes, share that, and always in the teaching said, start with basic
things, basic, now I don't have to cover that, sophisticated or more complicated, that, that
even you know, follow the simple basic things, such as ten virtues,
activating the ten virtues, awarding ten non virtues, relaxed mind, mindfulness, both each other,
loving kindness, compassion, this is all universally recognized, immediately can connect those,
those is very spacious, so what you, those are the teaching, and then teachings of the old other
teachings, such as nayana teachings too, according your cover minutes, according your knowledge,
again when you do these teachings, really non-expectations, no grasping, or no at worldly
concern, you all know those, at worldly concerns, no expectations, not kind of any kind of
reputation,
bragging, this and that, or not what they say, kind of boosting, bolstering, or kind of like
showing
those humble, simple, long to the earth, with both each other, and share the knowledge those
who are interested, and those actually going to have benefit, again with the basic things,
those are known as teaching, generosity, very again both each other, and the next one, third one,
is the protraction methods, and the protraction is again needed people, in samsara there's so
many people are on fear, f-e-a-r, fears, the fears, so any kind of like relief that we can do give,
again with both each other, with compassion, with loving kindness, whatever relief, whatever
support
you can give to them, with your cover minutes, by your cover minutes, whatever you do,
whether those are the skills, the methods, or considerations, what's the concept,
consolations, advicings, or what kind of ease, so their mind will not to worry, not so fear,
not so scared, or somebody in the big dangers, then kind of can protect, save them, someday
their lives, give the protections, good protraction, or medicines, medicines, any general such as
then,
if they're a star or give me something, that also material give, but same time is the protraction
gives, keeps protecting them, whatever you do to protect, save them, again with compassion,
with both each other, those are all known as generous practices, again as I said, generous
practice, each of those when you do, if you remember, do dedication, as what I said Buddha,
when the Buddha give his body, what is the dedication? May all living beings are
liberated by my generation, those who are not liberated by the previous Buddha. I think that
is all. Another one, also what Buddha said in the previous lifetime, as what we count by this,
some may come here as well, may I agree, as we count every day, and now I can
remember that story, how I said it, by this may all obtain omenya, may it defeat any wrongdoing,
from the stormy waves of birth and all that in sickness and death, and from all hymns of samsara,
may I pray all means. This is also one of those previous time, the previous lifetime, so the
British teacher, Buddha Shatamuni, guided after he gave the life, maybe this is really after this,
he give up his body, turtle, sittur to give up his body to this 80 thodent,
thodent of this essence, that after he joined this one. So if you remember that 80 times when you
did something good did, you dedicated that merit to benefit all living beings. That is really
perfect,
beautiful. Start with beautiful motivation, intention as bodhicata, and you did give that
without any grasping, clinging or pure gives, give and ending with good wishes, good intentions,
good thought. It's wholesome, the perfect, completely practices or total practices,
practicing and following footsteps of the great teacher, Buddha Shatamuni, and all with us,
the ears, all the victorious sun and the turtles, so then we are really following that. So that is
what about generously practice, generously, generously, then maybe I talk a little bit about
morality. Now morality is in Sanskrit is shila, shila practice, shila. Shila is Sanskrit a bit
translated into English, then I think is like morality then, but every word translated exactly
shila, according to Sanskrit word it will be like cool, c-o-o-l, cool. So truly morality is cool,
very cool. If you have good ethics, a good morality, no matter wherever you go, you will be
cool guys, truly you will be cool guys, and sooner you will become the stars, not just the cool
guys.
Hanayali is good for morality, is cool, and in Sanskrit in teachings also cool means what is that?
In the teachings when you have the moralities it will cool because you will be not tormented
by the heat of the emotions, heat of the emotions. So then you become cool, cool as a cool
breathing
sitting under the little fruit trees, trees in the shade or in hard times, so those are the
meaning words. But what is the nature of this morality? Nature of the morality is avoiding,
avoiding, that's it, avoiding. And what is the nature of the generosity? As I said give way,
giving. Generous nature is giving way, morality is avoiding. What is avoiding? All the negative
it is, all the negative it is, I like to avoid, negative it is. And all the mistakes and errors
I like to avoid, avoid. That is the mistakes, the errors according to the worldly level,
human ethics, and mistakes, the errors of them in the teaching, according to the teaching
that I like to avoid. All they speak is vows, vows and the samayas, those like to be avoided.
When you have that attitude, I'm not going to become strained by the negative emotions,
activated. Have that attitude strongly in the heart and mind, and that is always in the mind,
that is known as the nature of the morality. That is also very much, that nature, that attitude
like to avoid, that also means that individually is always in the mindfulness, and the otherness,
and consciousness. Therefore, it always remain beautiful, simple, perfect, and not going to fall
in either side, extremes of any side, and remain on the line in simple, humble, gentle, peaceful
ways.
That is really the nature or the meaning of the moralities. So that is my teaching for today,
and then we could do it again, going to talk this, and think, okay, everyone, everyone, I think I'm
going to say one thing, more things, one thing. Yesterday what I said, yesterday I said this six
part of that can be, not can be summarized as two merits, accumulation merit and wisdom merit.
I said to accumulation merit is the force in generosity and morality is accumulation merit.
And the wisdom last month is wisdom merit. It's a paramata, last paramata,
wisdom paramata is wisdom merit. And then three of them is a support and assistant to both.
I said that. That's also true. That is also in the teaching manual. But also in other teaching
manual, this again is slightly different. So the first three are the accumulation merits.
Last two are the wisdom merits. Last two means concentration paramata
and the wisdom paramedas are wisdom merit. And then the fourth one, which is joyful effort,
is assistant to both, all parliaments. So that is slightly different, different, which also in the
teaching mentioned that. So I just thought to highlight that. The fourth one, what I said
yesterday is also correct, true, in the teaching manual. And what I said today,
said another way, that is also in the teaching said is correct. There's not any contradiction,
but it's slightly with how to grouping these two to accumulation merit. Which is also in the
teaching, we use another word, accumulation merit, also can be named as related truth
merit, true activities. And this wisdom merit is also named as absolute merit, true activities.
So this is again, so that is different way to explore in the aspect or the meaning of those
merit is all that paramedas and the sixth parameda is a whole body of practices,
practice of the entire Mahayana Buddhism and the Vayayana Buddhism.
Thank you very much everyone. Thank you, now we do again for meditation. And then today we do
a little bit, we're going to join the Buddha mantras. Today is very special day is full moon,
full moon. And so of course, it's all the same, but we just highlight a little bit Buddha.
Buddha, so I think you all have this booklet and I'm going to highlight this of the work that this
practices and then we practice too. We do the exact same practices, but when we come to the
mantra of the meditation of the many other Buddhas, that we join the upper head of the
healing practices, that time they will highlight this and then do the practice.
Thank you.